Title: Links 7/x
Date: 2016-09-05 22:58
Category: Links

["I absolutely, positively can't tell the difference between real news and
satire
anymore."](https://twitter.com/tedgioia/status/770381644733747201)

[](https://twitter.com/tedgioia/status/770381644733747201)

[Interesting article
exploring](https://stratechery.com/2016/google-
uber-and-the-evolution-of-transportation-
as-a-service/)
the major players and potential development paths of self driving cars.

[George Soros has
found](http://www.politico.com/story/2016/08
/george-soros-criminal-justice-reform-227519) a way to spend money and influence
outcomes in the criminal justice system more effectively than traditional
political donations to high profile races, by funding the election campaigns
of local district attorneys. I find things like this quite interesting,
because it suggests that despite the obscene amounts of money in American
politics, it is still possible to find major pressure points that have very
little money behind them, where additional funds can make a big difference. It
also made me think of this [Robin Hanson post about pulling the rope
sideways](http://www.overcomingbias.com/2007/05/policy_tugowar.html)
in policy tug-of-wars, although I think what Soros is doing wouldn't count as
pulling sideways - more like finding a new way to pull harder to the left.

[The first autonomous entirely soft
robot](http://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2016/08
/the-first-autonomous-entirely-soft-
robot/)

[](http://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2016/08
/the-first-autonomous-entirely-soft-
robot/)

[Pluto vs
Australia](https://twitter.com/ziyatong/status/770617691178606592)

(seriously, follow [Ziya
Tong](https://twitter.com/ziyatong) on twitter)

[Wait for
it...](https://twitter.com/AaronMehta/status/770798655653683200)

[](https://twitter.com/AaronMehta/status/770798655653683200)

[John Nash's Nobel Prize medal to be sold at
auction.](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/31/arts
/john-nash-nobel-medal-to-be-auctioned-at-
sothebys.html?_r%3D0)

[](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/31/arts/john-
nash-nobel-medal-to-be-auctioned-at-
sothebys.html?_r%3D0)

[Blog
post](https://spottedtoad.wordpress.com/2016/08/24
/say-you-dont-need-no-diamond-
ring/)
discussing a paper on income and marriage. From the paper:

"We show that the distribution of the share of income earned by the wife
exhibits a sharp drop to the right of 1, where the wife's income exceeds the
husband's income ... Within marriage markets, when a randomly chosen woman
becomes more likely to earn more than a randomly chosen man, marriage rates
decline."

This is an interesting explanation (or partial explanation) for why marriage
rates have declined more for people with lower incomes. As women's incomes
rise, the pool of "eligible" women for a man earning a low income shrinks
substantially more than for higher earning men.

Trump goes to Mexico, seems to soften on immigration, then the same day throws
a rally in Phoenix and reverts to type. This isn't surprising or interesting
at this point - but the NYT didn't see it coming and [got their story badly
wrong](http://newsdiffs.org/diff/1240899/1240928/www.nytimes.com/2016/09/01/us/politics
/donald-trump-immigration-
speech.html),
and then corrected it on their website without mentioning that fact anywhere.

The WSJ [also made a major
change](https://twitter.com/elizthompsn/status/771835725046099968)
to their coverage of the issue, with [snopes pointing
out](http://www.snopes.com/wsj-different-trump-
headlines/)
it was because the story changed, not for nefarious reasons.

Two articles from the Australian Financial Review about our relationship with
China - [one about
spies](http://www.afr.com/news/world/asia
/australia-is-losing-the-battle-against-chinas-citizen-
spies-20160831-gr5rfq),
and one about [politicians' opinions on the South China
Sea](http://www.afr.com/news/second-labor-mp-
aligns-with-beijing-over-south-china-
sea-20160902-gr7e3t).
(If the second one is paywalled, as it was for me, [try the Google
cache](http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q%3Dcache:Ya6mi7G1zx4J:www.afr.com/news
/second-labor-mp-aligns-with-beijing-over-south-china-
sea-20160902-gr7e3t%2B%26cd%3D1%26hl%3Den%26ct%3Dclnk%26gl%3Dus))

[Quilted Northern Rustic Weave Artisanal Toilet
Paper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v%3DvRlBtabKRFM)
(youtube)

[Candy being made in
reverse.](https://twitter.com/ziyatong/status/770447695328583680)
Surprise twist ending!

[English grammar is
fascinating:](https://twitter.com/MattAndersonBBC/status/772002757222002688)

"...adjectives in English absolutely have to be in this order: opinion-size-
age-shape-colour-origin-material-purpose Noun."

[Mike Rowe on Charles
Koch](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/09
/mike-rowe-on-charles-
koch.html),
via marginal revolution.

