Title: Links 1/x
Date: 2016-07-24 21:28
Category: Links

This is a new attempt at more frequent communication. Hopefully I will be able
to generate one of these about once a week - we shall see!

Researchers at Google have created the [first scalable quantum simulation of a
molecule](https://research.googleblog.com/2016/07
/towards-exact-quantum-description-
of.html)
using a variational quantum eigensolver, which is a quantum analog of a neural
network. I understand some of those words, and the article is very readable.
This seems hugely significant to me, although I don't know if this is a
breakthrough, or just a routine advance that experts have known was coming
eventually. I have no knowledge that would let me assess the likelihood of
breakthroughs in practical quantum computing that we might expect over the
next few decades, but my very occasional perusing of [Scott Aaronson's
blog](http://www.scottaaronson.com/blog/)
suggests that if quantum computers arrive, they will not replace normal
computers but instead be used to solve particular problems to which they are
very well suited. Simulating molecular behaviour is one of these problems, and
this article gives a pretty good explanation of why being able to do such
simulations would be revolutionary.

[Very interesting post](https://paulromer.net
/economic-growth-2/) by Paul Romer ([the next chief economist at the world
bank](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/07
/it-seems-paul-romer-will-be-chief-economist-at-the-world-
bank.html))
on cities and growth. I haven't read anything else at his blog, but I plan to.
The article and video in the second link above are also interesting, as is
this [interview with
him](http://www.econtalk.org/archives/_featuring/paul_romer/)
at EconTalk.

Question for those on the left: is [avoiding the rise of the Republican
party](http://www.vox.com/2016/7/19/12169274
/marco-rubio-winner-alternate-
reality)
worth the 30% chance that Trump has of becoming president? And if you think
his odds are lower, [are you using that knowledge to make
money](https://www.betfair.com.au/sports/politics/2016
-us-presidential-election/8887484)?

[Good article on Brexit trade
negotiations.](http://www.politics.co.uk/blogs/2016/07/14
/everything-you-need-to-know-about-theresa-
may-s-brexit)

[](http://www.politics.co.uk/blogs/2016/07/14
/everything-you-need-to-know-about-theresa-
may-s-brexit)

Google Deepmind has [a cool blog
post](https://deepmind.com/blog)
about how they reduced Google's  data centre cooling bill by 40%. Also, they
have a blog which doesn't let you visit andlink to individual posts??

[Why is Bluetooth called
Bluetooth?](https://twitter.com/juliagalef/status/755829959201992704)

[](https://twitter.com/juliagalef/status/755829959201992704)

[Trump and
Putin](http://talkingpointsmemo.com/edblog/trump-
putin-yes-
it-s-really-a-thing):
"At a minimum, Trump appears to have a deep financial dependence on Russian
money from persons close to Putin.

. . .

There is also something between a non-trivial and a substantial amount of
evidence suggesting Putin-backed financial support for Trump or a non-tacit
alliance between the two men."

[Oh gosh, so
excited.](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/752182992982843392)

[Can't
wait.](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/754272832440250368)

[Always with the
delays.](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/754772663365664768)
([Not that I'm
complaining...](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/754931091891453952))

[Yes, we get it, hurry
up!](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/754968472929574912)

[Glad to see you're finally knuckling down and getting something
done.](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/755439077235814400)

[...what?](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/755808603706011648)

[YAY!](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/755929747763245061)

