Title: Links 5/x
Date: 2016-08-21 17:57
Category: Links

A followup on asymmetric information from last week, this time [in the context
of increasing wage
segregation](http://niskanencenter.org/blog/why-
in-wage-
segregation/):

"Wages are also becoming increasingly segregated by firm--meaning, high wage
employees are increasingly working in high wage firms and low wage employees
work in low wage firms, rather than in firms with a mix of both."

The article proposes a decrease in asymmetric information as a possible cause:

"Our nostalgic vision of the mid-20th century's strong middle class is a
memory of a wage pooling equilibrium that eventually unraveled. Behemoth
corporate employers priced labor in a relatively naive way, given an inability
to observe the heterogeneity of individual productivity moment by moment, and
the role of labor unions in negotiating wages as a collective.

...high productivity workers bore a negative externality by having to
partially subsidize low productivity workers due to the inherent opacity of
who-contributes-what within team production.

That has changed with information technology that makes it easier than ever to
observe and measure individual worker productivity and screen for it
accordingly"

Also related to asymmetric information: [death
arbitrage](https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2016-08-16
/hedge-fund-manager-profited-from-death-
arbitrage).

Also related to death: a long article about [central line infections in
hospitals](http://www.vox.com/2015/7/9/8905959
/medical-harm-infection-prevention), and how they can be reduced or
prevented. It underscores how important improving and enforcing seemingly
simple best practices can be in reducing unnecessary deaths in hospital, and
how just knowing the solution isn't enough. Difficult work is required to turn
that knowledge into real world improvements in mortality.

[Have physicists discovered a fifth force of
nature?](http://m.phys.org/news/2016-08
-physicists-discovery-nature.html) Probably not, but would be huge if true!

[Skipping a pound of sodium on a
lake](https://twitter.com/VideosOfScience/status/763619841009778688)

[](https://twitter.com/VideosOfScience/status/763619841009778688)

[Self-driving buses in
Finland](http://yle.fi/uutiset/helsinki_rolls_out_driverless_bus_pilot/9099541),
and [self-driving Ubers in
Pittsburgh](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2016-08-18/uber-s
-first-self-driving-fleet-arrives-in-pittsburgh-this-month-
is06r7on)
(with safety drivers behind the wheel).

Interesting discussion of [Japanese zoning
laws](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/08
/the-japanese-zoning-
system.html)
and how they have helped keep house prices low.

[How Global Elites Forsake Their
Countrymen.](http://www.wsj.com/articles/how-
global-elites-forsake-their-
countrymen-1470959258) Subtitle: Those in power see people at the bottom as
aliens whose bizarre emotions they must try to manage.

Interesting article about the [small-to-medium sized businesses powering the
German economy](https://hbr.org/2016/08/germanys-
midsize-manufacturers-outperform-its-industrial-
giants):

"Called the Mittelstand in German, this class of highly specialized, often
family-owned businesses makes up the backbone of the national economy. Germany
is ranked fourth in the global economy, but it's home to only 28 companies in
the Fortune 500. Great Britain and France each have more. But when it comes to
little-known leaders in their market, Germany has [1,307 "hidden
champions,"](http://www.whiteboardmag.com/hidden-
champions-1-what-german-companies-can-teach-you-about-
innovation/)
nine times as many as those two countries combined."

The [most complex auction
ever](https://medium.com/@t8el/the-most-complex-
auction-ever-29f004bfdc28%23.duu8fd3ty) has begun, trying to more efficiently
allocate wireless spectrum between hundreds of small TV broadcasters and large
mobile phone operators. I have read previously that combinatorial auctions are
potentially a very efficient way to allocate resources, but I don't really
understand them. More reading is required.

[Computing power has come a long way in the last 21
years.](https://twitter.com/BenedictEvans/status/766822192197738496)

[](https://twitter.com/BenedictEvans/status/766822192197738496)

[Why Donald Trump could only happen in
America](http://www.vox.com/2016/8/19/12547038
/trump-european-right-immigration-american-politics-
nationalism).
An interesting article comparing Trumpism to European right wing political
movements, and the effect of the American political system, which is much less
favourable to small parties:

"In the United States...there is no place for the sizable minority of racist
and ethno-nationalist voters to go except within a major party. And there is
also no place for elites of that party to go."

"American historians and social scientists have often observed (with a bit of
smugness) that the rough and ready United States was more successful in
resisting extremism of the right or left during the 1930s than was much of
Europe. Yet now, the most famous racist and nativist in the land -- though he
trails in the polls and depends almost entirely on white voters -- is only a
few unknown unknowns away from taking the oath of office next January."

