Title: Links 4/x
Date: 2016-08-15 22:49
Category: Links

[Iceland's Pirate Party likely to form their next
government](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/aug/12
/polls-suggests-icelands-pirate-party-form-next-
government):

"The Pirate party, whose platform includes direct democracy, greater
government transparency, a new national constitution and asylum for US
whistleblower Edward Snowden, will field candidates in every constituency and
has been at or near the top of every opinion poll for over a year.

As befits a movement dedicated to reinventing democracy through new
technology, it also aims to boost the youth vote by persuading the company
developing Pokemon Go in Iceland to turn polling stations into Pokestops."

[A paper from Steven
Levitt](http://papers.nber.org/tmp/14952-w22487.pdf)
(of Freakonomics) doing the rounds at the moment looked at people who were on
the fence about a decision in their lives. It gave them a coin toss - heads
you make a change, tails you don't, and found that people for whom the coin
came up heads were more likely to make the change, and also happier after 6
months. The upshot is that if you are on the edge of making a big decision,
you should probably go for it.

[Vox putting some
numbers](http://www.vox.com/2016/8/3/12342764
/autonomous-trucks-employment) on one group of people that will be hit hard by
self-driving cars - truck drivers. Consider that there are 1.8 million people
driving heavy trucks in America, and compare it to coal mining:

"Coal mining has lost around 150 thousand jobs over 30 years or so, around
50,000 in the last five years. And that is considered a social and political
crisis worthy of presidential attention."

[I'm with
Herzog](https://twitter.com/hemos/status/762798465780887552)

[](https://twitter.com/hemos/status/762798465780887552)

[Suck it,
breakfast!](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/27465375/)
The paper is gated so I haven't read the whole thing, but I do find it odd
that in the conclusion summary I have linked to, they say this:

"RESULTS: There were no significant (P â‰¥ 0.004) differences between breakfast
meal consumption and fasting for any of the neuropsychological measures
administered."

How did they come up with 0.004 as a significance level to test against? Does
that imply that they did find a significant link at 0.005?

[Cool bionic
bird](https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid%3D10154452057849228%26id%3D509414227)

[](https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid%3D10154452057849228%26id%3D509414227)

[Interesting article about Amazon drone delivery
logistics.](https://twitter.com/elidourado/status/763401268614356994)

[](https://twitter.com/elidourado/status/763401268614356994)

[I found this article](http://www.cato-
unbound.org/2015/04/06/alex-tabarrok-tyler-cowen/end-asymmetric-
information)
about asymmetric information very interesting. In economics, asymmetric
information is when one party in a transaction has more information than the
other. A classic example is the market for used cars - the seller has much
more information than the buyer about whether the car is a "lemon" or a
"plum", which results in buyers being willing to pay less on average because
of the risk of lemons. This causes owners of "plums" to exit the market,
because they cannot get a good price, driving up the prevalence of lemons,
driving the average price further down, causing more plums to exit, etc. The
article is about the end of asymmetric information, brought about by better
technology and increased data collection, with upsides being reliable buying
and selling between strangers using reputation systems like Ebay, and
downsides a reduction in privacy and a lack of second chances for people who
have something go wrong in their lives.

[Long article about the growth of
data](http://www.nature.com/news/the-bandwidth-
bottleneck-that-is-throttling-the-
internet-1.20392) and the struggle to build the bandwidth to support it.

"...vendors' efforts to synchronize private data centres around the world now
consume more bandwidth than public Internet traffic."

[Good video explainer of
CRISPR](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v%3DjAhjPd4uNFY).
This is one of those things that may change the entire world.

[Greenland shark is at least 272 years
old!](http://www.npr.org/sections/health-
shots/2016/08/11/489229041/talk-about-an-ancient-mariner-greenland-shark-is-
at-least-272-years-
old)

"The researchers believe these sharks reach sexual maturity at about the age
of 150 years."

Why are there so many ties in swimming (e.g. 3-way tie in the 100m butterfly)?
Turns out [there is actually a reasonable
explanation!](http://regressing.deadspin.com
/this-is-why-there-are-so-many-ties-in-
swimming-1785234795) Also, [the world in a
headline.](https://twitter.com/nancyleong/status/764968748298100736)

[](https://twitter.com/nancyleong/status/764968748298100736)

[Cool video of a school of fish deforming away from a
seal.](https://twitter.com/ziyatong/status/764855900381204480)

[](https://twitter.com/ziyatong/status/764855900381204480)

[Someone created this chart. Why would they do that? What was going through
their mind as they made
it?](https://twitter.com/JustinSandefur/status/765364934591012864)

